Characters are allowed to select any of these their character may be eligible for, but no more than one in any single category.
At 3rd level, and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain any trait you are eligible for.
Any time you are going to gain a level, you may instead set your xp to the starting amount of your current level and instead gain one soul trait you are eligible for.


# ***Age***  
Reincarnation is not especially common these days. As such, new born souls are the most common in the world. Even a soul that has been reincarnated a dozen times can largely be considered a new born.  
* **New Born Soul**  
  * *Perpetual Wonder* - You go through live in amazement of all you see, often in wonder at how you are the only one that seems mezmorized by the great sights of the world. When exploring somewhere new, you are immune to fear.  If perpetual wonder is taken twice, when exploring somewhere new, once per round, you may roll twice and take the higher result on any roll.  Taking perpetual wonder additional times increases the number of times per round this may be done.  
  * *Unexpected Prodigy* - Req Intelligence 14 (+2 per rank) - You have learned to excel far past your peers at a particular skill.  Select one skill, you may add your class level to any rolls using that skill.  This can be selected more then once, but a different skill must be selected.  
  * *Curious Nature* - Your infinite desire to learn has resulted in you testing your weaknessess as often your strengths.   Increase your lowest ability score by 1.  In addition, you may gain one general feat for which you qualify.  

* **Old Soul**  
  * *Hardened Will* - Req Wisdom 12 (+2 per rank) - Over the years, your self idenity has hardened. Once per day, per rank, you may reroll a failed will save.  
  * *Familiar Knowledge* - Every so often when you learn something new, it comes to you naturally. You gain one feat which has a prerequisite feat that you possess.  

* **Ancient Soul** Few souls in the world ever reach the age of ancient, and the vast majority of them only do so through the efforts of powerful families who have kept their founding members souls re-incarnated within the family.  
  * *Family Scion* - Req Charisma 12 (+2 per rank) - You are the uncounted reincarnation of a very poweful family or organization.  As such, you carry yourself with an esteemed dignity and greater sense of purpose.  Your charisma increases by 1.  In addition, you may use your charisma modifier in place of your dexterity for reflex saves, ac, initiative, or a single skill.  Any time you select family scion, you may select an additional trait to use charisma instead of dex, but do not gain additional charisma.  
  * *Deep Well* - All magic requires your inner will to shape and manifest itself. Your well of inner will is, however, ancient.  When casting a spell using wisdom as the primary casting stat, you reduce the effect of any spell immunities or resistance the target has.  Immunity goes to SR equal to CR times 1.5,  SR of any kind is reduced by 5.  If this is taken multiple times the effect is applied again (so a target immune to your spell instead just has SR equal to the creatures CR, multiplied by 1.5, minus 5.  


# ***Magic***  
* **Feybound Soul**  
  * *Bonded Creature* - A specific fey creature has taken a great interest in you and you have formed a strong bond.  Each time you select this, you gain a supernatural or extraordinary ability from the creature you have bonded with. If you choose, you may instead select a special quality, sense, feat, language,or speed.  In addition, embracing this connection shapes who you are.  Your alignment shifts one step towards the alignment of your bonded creature, until they match.  You first shift along Lawful<->Chaotic axis, and then along Good<->Evil.   
  * *Love of the Wild* - You are most at home in nature and the wild.  Any time you are in the wild and out of sight of any buildings, you gain a +1 to all rolls, AC, and saves.   
  * *Land Bound* - You have always been fond of the subtle strength the natural world holds and have bound yourself to a portion of it. Through this connection, you have learned to channel the natural magic of the world.  You may select one spell from the druid or shaman spell lists with a spell level equal to or less than half your character level (round up).  You may cast this spell a number of times per day equal to half your charisma modifier.  If you select this a second time, you pick a different spell.  It does not share the same pool of uses per day.  

* **Timebound Soul**   Your soul has been bound to the eternal drum of time.  Attuning to the endless drum of time conforms your soul to uniformity.  Each time you take a timebound trait, your alignment shifts one step towards Lawful Neutral.  You first shift along Lawful<->Chaotic axis, and then along Good<->Evil.  
  * *Natural Rhythm* - You have learned the natural rhythm of the world, and can seize the correct moment in time better then most.  Each day, you must spend 20 minutes in meditation, attuning to the rhythm of the universe. Once completed, you are treated as if you are under the effects of Moment of Prescience for the next 24 hours, with a caster level equal to your character level.  If natural rhythm is taken an additional time, you gain an additional use of moment of prescience before it expires.  
  * *Temporal Celerity* - Whenever you roll initiative, you may roll twice and take the higher result. In addition, you always act in a surprise round, although if you did not notice you act last in the surprise round, regardless of your initiative roll.  Each time you take this, you add an additional dice to your initiative roll.  
  * *Natural Foresight* - Once per day, you may cast contingency as a spell like ability. If you have the ability to cast contingency from another source, you may cast it in addition to using your natural foresight and it may function separately.  If Natural Foresight is taken more then once, you may add an additional spell to trigger on the same conditions.  

* **Shadowbound Soul**   Your soul has been bound to the eternal drum of time.  Attuning to the endless drum of time conforms your soul to uniformity.  Each time you take a timebound trait, your alignment shifts one step towards Evil.  You first shift along Lawful<->Chaotic axis, and then along Good<->Evil.  
  * *Shadowed Essense* - You have always been drawn to the dark places of the world, and over time, you have noticed they are drawn back to you as well.  For each rank of this trait, gain darkvision 60 or increase your existing darkvision by 60.  In addition, you gain the ability to hide in the shadows.  As long as you are withing 10 feet of an area of dim light, a shadowed soul can use the stealth skill without actually having something to hide behind.  This increases by 10 feet for each rank of this trait.  
  * *Shadow Adept* - You have learned to tap into the plane of shadow and manipulate it to your will.  You may cast shadow evocation and shadow conjuration a total of 4 times per day, for each rank of this trait. Your caster level for these spells is your character level with your casting stat being your highest mental ability score.  In addition, for each rank of this trait, when making an attack against a flanked opponent or opponent who is denied their dexterity modifier, you may add 1d6 precision damage.  
  * *Shadow Channeler* - You have embraced the shadows, and can flow through them as easily as they flow through you.  When you take a move action, you may treat squares that are in darkness as adjacent to each other, provided they are within Perception Rank x 10 feet.  In addition, as a supernatural ability, for a number of rounds per day equal to your charisma modifier you gain the use of the spell Shadowform.  

* **Monstrous Soul**  - While many of the world once debated about monstrous humanoids and whether they possessed souls and true faith, the existence of beings like you proves the answer to that question is yes. Well, at least sometimes. This most commonly occurs when a child has a known ancestor of a monstrous race of humanoids.  
  * *Witchwyrd Decendent* - Each time you take this trait, you gain one of the witchwyrd's senses.  In addition,  gain one of the following spells as an at will/constant effect. (detect magic, floating disk, mage armor, resist energy(one at a time), unseen servant).  If this trait is taken a third or forth time, the withwyrd decendent gains an additional arm.  This arm is spectral in nature, but functions like a regular arm for all purposes.  The spectral arms end in a three finger hand.  
  * *Murajau Decendent* - These strange creatures are only found on remote islands, but their friendly intelligent nature endeered them with every society that has been lucky enough to encounter these crustation like humanoids.  For each rank of this trait, your natural armor increases by 2.  In addition, you can channel the magic of items in your possession.  For each rank of this trait, you can magically bind yourself to a magic weapon to your person.  Each weapon provides a stacking arcane bonus to attacks and damage equal to its modifier.  This weapon can not be used while bound, and the enhancement bonus of the item can not be from a spell.
  * *Thriae Decendent* - Those with Thriae ancestory often find they have the ability to inspire with their natural grace, taking after the mystic insect within.  You have learned to aid your allies and communicate through dance. Activating a dance is a standard action, maintaining it is a free action, and you may dance a total number of rounds equal to your hit dice.  Each time you select this trait, you may select a new dance.  If you take this trait three times, activating a dance becomes a swift action.  
     *Dance of Fervor*: All non-thriae are affected by confusion and rage (Will DC <charisma mod + half character level + 11> negates). When this effect ends, affected creatures are fatigued for a number of rounds equal to the time they were affected and are immune to the dance of fervor effect for 24 hours.  
     *Dance of Grace*: All allies gain an insight bonus to AC and on Reflex saves equal to your hit dice divided by 5(round up)  
     *Dance of Passion*: All allies gain an insight bonus on attack and damage rolls equal to your hit dice divided by 5(round up)  
  * *Gray Ape Decendent* - The Gray Apes may have the most in common with the humanoids commonly found in cities, but their size, incredible strength, and limited patience has secluded them from the civilized world.  Each time you select this trait, you gain one of the following abilities.  
     *Saving Sheild* : As an immidiate action, you may add your shield bonus + 2 to an adjacent ally's AC.  
     *Step Up* : If a foe makes a 5 ft step away from you, you may move 5ft to follow them as a free action.   
     *Apes Cleave* : If an attack you make hits a foe, you may attack an adjacent target at the same attack bonus.  If you do this, you take a -2 penalty to your AC for one round and provoke an attack of opportunity.  This is treated as cleave for the purposes of feats.  
  * *Tanuki Decendent* These small charismatic shapechanging humanoids are often only revealed when one of their children is revealed to have unexpected ancestory. You have retained their great love of drink, and along with it, the ability to accomplish great things.  The first time you take this trait, select one of the following spells: Divine Favor, False Life, Haste, Rage.  When you drink a full glass of sake (or equivalent), you gain the effects of that spell with a caster level equal to your hit dice.
The second time you take this, you may select from the following spell list: Echolocation, Polymorph, Stoneskin, Air Walk.  
When using this power, you automatically fail any fortitude save vs intoxication.  


# ***Divine***  
* **Dragonsoul** Few think of dragons as divine beings, as they predate the existence of actual gods.  However, those that study magic at a primal level agree that dragons and the creatures of the heavens and hells are nearly identicle in nature.
  * *Astral Bond* - Your birth was blessed by an ancient astral dragon.  You possess a strong connection to the astral plane and may slip into it more easily.  A number of times per day equal to 2 times the number of ranks you have in Astral Bond, you may step into the astral plane as a standard action.  Once there, you may cast teleport any distance as a move action.  Leaving the astral plane is a free action.  If this is taken 3 times, stepping into the astral plane is a swift action and may be done three times per day per rank in astral bond.
  * *Dreambound* - You were born under the blessed influence of the dream dragons.  You are immune to dream, nightmare and similiar spells.  In addition, you can cast dream travel a number of times per day equal to your ranks in Dreambound.
If you have two or more ranks in Dreambound, you may cast dream voyage instead of dream travel.  If you have three or more ranks in Dreambound, you may join a sleeping creature who you can see's dream as a lucid body, while still active in their physical body.
  * *Silverhearted* - Your soul was blessed by the noble and brave silver dragons.  When you are acting in the name of good, you are considered under the constant effects of spell turning with a caster level equal to your character level.  When this effect expires, it does not reapply until the next day.  Each time you take this trait, you gain an additional 1d4+6 spell levels for the spell turning.  
If you take this trait three times, you have fully embraced your heritage's strength.  When reduced below 0 hit points, you remain conscious, automatically stabilize, and can continue to act(although you are staggered).  If you take damage, or is the target of a spell that causes death, you remain alive for 1 round and can act normally (you are not staggered for this final round).
  * *Red Soul* - The infernal rage and anger of the red dragon flight simmers deep within.  You have learned to embrace and manipulate fire.  You gain resist fire 10 for each rank of this trait.  In addition, you can control any fire spell within 100 feet per rank of Red Soul as a standard action.  This allows you to move any fire effect, as if you were the caster.  You may also reposition a stationary fire effect, although the new placement must be one allowed by the spell. 
If you take this trait three times you can control any fire spell cast within 20 feet per rank of Red Soul, as if it were the caster.  The red soul can make all decisions allowed by the caster, including canceling the spell.

* **Servant of the Deep**  You have formed a connection with an unspeakable horror of the deep ocean.  Rarely is a child cursed enough to be born with a connection to a deep one, and only the very foolish seek one out.
  * *Forbidden Knowledge* You have learned incredible things in your study and while you can't explain it, you have memories that seem foreign to you. You may gain any feat for which you do not meet one per rank of forbidden knowledge prerequisite, but meet all others.
As your knowledge grows with the unexplained, you can feel it beginning to break your mind apart. Each time you gain a rank in forbidden knowledge, roll a d100 against the below table and gain that disability permanently.  This can be removed via the normal magical means, but any forbidden knowledge gained at the same rank as the insanity is lost.  If you receive the same madness twice, the condition intensifies(or happens again, in case of amnesia) and any associated save increases by 2.
|**d%**|**Insanity**|
| :- | :- |
|1–11|[Amnesia](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/madness/amnesia)|
|12–48|[Mania/Phobia](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/madness/mania-phobia)|
|49–68|[Multiple Personality Disorder](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/madness/multiple-personality-disorder)|
|69–78|[Paranoia](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/madness/paranoia)|
|79–84|[Psychosis](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/madness/psychosis)|
|85–100|[Schizophrenia](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/madness/schizophrenia)|

* **Demonic Slave**  While many seek to bind a demon into their own service, many are aware that much can be gained if you are willing to bargain a piece of yourself.  
  * *Demon Bound* You have voluntarily bound yourself to a demon.  In exchange for control over your immortal soul, you have been granted a gift of power.  Each time you take this trait, your alignment shifts one step towards chaotic evil.  If it already is chaotic evil, you instead accomplish the second ritual of demon transformation and continue to advance to becoming a demon each time the trait is selected.  
In addition, you gain one supernatural or extraordinary ability possessed by your bound demon.  
If you take this trait three times, you also gain any spell like abilities possesed by your demon, with the same uses per day and a caster level equal to your hit dice.  
* **Contracted with a Devil**  
  * *Legally Obligated* You have voluntarily entered into a contract with a devil in exchange for well defined power.  Each time you take this trait, your alignment shifts one step towards lawful evil.  
In addition, you gain one supernatural or extraordinary ability possessed by your contracted devil.  
If you take this trait three times, you also gain any spell like abilities possesed by your devil, with the same uses per day and a caster level equal to your hit dice.  
* **Sworn to an Angel**   
  * *Oath of Honor* You have sworn service to an angel and have been blessed with their favor.  Each time you take this trait, your alignment shifts one step towards good.  
In addition, you gain one supernatural or extraordinary ability possessed by your contracted angel.  
If you take this trait three times, you also gain any spell like abilities possessed by your angel, with the same uses per day and a caster level equal to your hit dice.  
If your alignment ever shifts towards evil, any powers granted by your angel are lost and they abandon you.  
* **Favored of a Titan** The mighty titans are not seen outside their mountain fortresses very often, but there are still a few that can be found for those who look.  
  * *Minor Blessing*  You come from a community that is under the protection of a Titan and share the blessing bestowed on the town.  Each time you take this trait, you gain +2 to your second highest ability score and +1 to the lowest ability score.  
  * *Major Oath*  You have a major connection with a specific Titan and have sworn an oath of service in exchange.  Each time you take this trait, you take on an additional oath and your alignment shifts one step towards that of your Titan and you gain one supernatural or extraordinary ability they possess.  
If you take this trait three times, you also gain any spell like abilities possessed by your Titan, with the same uses per day and a caster level equal to your hit dice.  
* **Demigod** You are the ancestor of a god, conceived after their ascension to divinity.  
  * *Godling* Your divine connection grants you ultimate power over the souless creatures of the world, albeit, for a limited time.  When you take this trait, you may spend an immediate action to counter a supernatural or extraordinary ability you know a soulless creature possesses.  You may do this a number of times per day equal to your ranks in Godling.  
If you take this trait at least three times, you elevate from the ranks of heroes and aspire to join the ranks to true divinity.
You gain a cult of worshipers. This functions as the Leadership feat, except that all your followers are adepts, clerics, druids, or other classes that gain access to divine spells, and your cohort is your high priest. You may use sending (as the spell) a number of times per day equal to 1 + your Wisdom bonus (minimum 1) to contact any of your followers or cohort. Clerics that worship you may access the three domains associated with your lineage domain ability  

# ***Nature***
* **Stonebound**  You feel most at home in the moutains and deep caves of the world.  You have learned to listen to the ground and hear things others are unaware of.
You gain tremorsense equal to 10 feet per rank of stonebound.  In addition, you gain blind sense for targets within 5 feet per rank of stonebound of your tremorsense range.
If you take three ranks of earthbound, you gain the ability to glide through the earth like a fish in water.  You gain a burrow speed equal to half your normal speed plus 5 feet per rank in earthbound.  In addition, you are immune to petrification.  
* **Waterhome**  You are never more at ease then when out on the water.  Your body naturally recovers when you fully submerge yourself in water.
When you are entirely underwater, you gain fast healing 2 per rank of waterhome.  
If you take three or more ranks of this trait, your fast healing becomes regeneration. 
* **Treefriend**  You have spent as much of your life in the forests as you can manage, and have a hard time relaxing without plants in sight.  With time, you have become more like them.  Each time you take a rank in this trait, you gain one of the plan immunities for yourself: mind-affecting(charms, compulsions, morale effects, patterns, or phantasms), paralysis, poison, polymorph, sleep, or stun.  
* **Desert Walker**  The endless bleak wonder of the great deserts of the world have always drawn your heart. You may ignore the effects of a hot climate as if using endure elements.  In addition, your connection with the sand allows you to move even faster on the unstable material.  You may increase your land or burrow speed by 10 feet per rank of desert walker
If you take two ranks of desert walker, you gain a burrow speed equal to your land speed when traveling on sand.  If you take a third rank, you can use the sand to shift swiftly in combat.  When in sand, you may travel from one location in contact with sand to another, as if using the teleport spell. This does not strickly have to be sand on the ground, and can be done in a sandstorm or similar situation.
* **Farmer** You are most at home in a well tended growing field you managed yourself.  A life of enjoying a day of hard work has kept you more fit then most.  A number of times per day equal to your ranks in farmer, when an effect would normally leave you fatigued or exhausted, you may ignore the fatigue or exhausted effect.
If you take this trait three or more times, you may instead apply this effect to a failed fortitude save.


